Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, during the many years that I served on the
Armed Services Committee in the Senate, I gained great respect as a statesman, as a very
fine public servant, and as one of our great engineers and scientists, a trevary gardener
who was an assistant secretary of the Air Force in charge of research and development.
That is all of the atomic programs and the missile programs came under him.
Mr. Gardner is now the head of the TACON Manufacturing Company at Pasadena, California.
He has a great deal of information about atomic energy and knowledge about missiles, and
he's able to, and he follows with great interest the disarmament conferences that are going
on.
Certainly, it's good to have you with us, sir.
Mr. Gardner, I'm sorry, Mr. Gardner.
The ten nation, ten power disarmament conference started at Geneva on Tuesday, I believe.
And what is all this about?
What do you think can be discussed and what is the necessity of talking about disarmament
present time?
Well, this is a continuation of the 14 years of negotiations that have proceeded this conference
in the United Nations on disarmament.
These negotiations have up till now been fruitless.
The present attempts, I feel, it's highly urgent that some kind of an agreement be reached
with the Russians, particularly.
And what makes you feel that way?
Particularly about what now?
Particularly in regard to suspension of nuclear tests.
I feel that we've got to bring some sort of control over the nuclear testing problem
before nuclear know-how spreads throughout the world.
And before too many nations have nuclear weapons so that agreements become a literally
impossible.
As it stands now, we, the Soviet Union, England, and now France have nuclear weapons, and
do you think that other nations will have it, have them before too long?
Yes, I think it's highly alarming that additional nations are getting nuclear capability, nuclear
weapons capability, as time goes on.
It's not too difficult to project that perhaps communist China might be the next nation to
detonate a nuclear device.
If they should do this, I think it is extremely serious, as a matter of fact, it is extremely
serious, if the nuclear club, as it's called, becomes any larger.
Because even today, with Russia and the US possessing nuclear weapons and the power to
deliver them, the possibility of an irrational act or an unexpected act or an accident, triggering
a nuclear war that would annihilate the world, is frightening.
It's a much greater risk than the risk involved in resulting from arriving at test suspension
agreements.
Well, Trivore, do you think that we can have sufficient inspection to enter into an agreement
of this kind?
Yes, our country has been quite ambivalent on this point.
We have, on the one hand, said to the Russians that we would agree to spacing of a thousand
miles on stations for inspections and then quickly re-reversed ourselves.
We believe that many scientists join me, I think, in this, that it is possible with a spacing
of about 250 miles on inspection stations to detect even small nuclear tests.
And therefore, the risk of a violation of a nuclear test suspension ban becomes quite
small.
I think there's another point here, and that is that it is necessary for the violating
nation not only to think about the benefit they get from the violation, but the danger
involved if they are quite cheating.
Yes, well, I wish very much we could go on with this because this is one of the most important
conferences that we've had in a long time.
We hope there will be some success.
Thank you very much, Mr. Gardner, and we hope to have you back again on our program.
That's all for now, ladies and gentlemen.